.if n .ds La '
.if n .ds Ra '
.if t .ds La `
.if t .ds Ra '
.if n .ds Lq "
.if n .ds Rq "
.if t .ds Lq ``
.if t .ds Rq ''
.de Ch
\\$3\\*(Lq\\$1\\*(Rq\\$2
..
.TH EXPIRE 8 "January 17, 1986"
.ds ]W  Version B 2.10.3
.SH NAME
expire \- remove outdated news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR /usr/lib/news/expire " [ " \-n
.IR newsgroups " ] ["
.BR \-i " ] [ " \-I " ] ["
.BR \-a " ] ["
.BI \-v level
] [
.BI \-e days
] [
.BI \-E days
] 
.br
.B /usr/lib/news/expire
.BR \-p " ["
.BI \-e days
] [
.BI \-E days
] 
.br
.B /usr/lib/news/expire
.B \-r
.br
.B /usr/lib/news/expire 
.BI \-f account
[
.BI \-e days
] [
.BI \-E days
] 
.br
.B /usr/lib/news/expire
.B \-u
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Expire
is normally started by
.IR cron (8)
every night to remove all expired news.
If no newsgroups are specified, the default is all newsgroups.
.PP
Articles whose specified expiration date has already passed
are considered expirable.
The
.B \-a
option causes expire to archive articles in
.IR /usr/spool/oldnews .
Otherwise, the articles are unlinked.
.PP
The
.B \-v
option causes expire to be more verbose.
It can be given a verbosity level (default 1) as in
.B \-v3
for even more output.
This is useful if articles aren't being expired and you want to know why.
.PP
The
.B \-e
flag gives the number of days to use for a default expiration date.
If not given, an installation dependent default (often 2 weeks) is used.
.PP
The 
.B \-E
flag is the number of days to save the history of the article
(often 4 weeks). A record of an article is kept in the history file past
the time that the article itself has been deleted. This is to
minimize duplicate articles.
.PP
The
.B \-i
and
.B \-I
flags
tell
.I expire
to ignore any expiration date explicitly given on articles.
This can be used when disk space is really tight.
The
.B \-I
flag will always ignore expiration dates,
while the
.B \-i
flag will only ignore the date if ignoring it would expire the article sooner.
.B WARNING:
If you have articles archived by giving them expiration dates far into the
future, these options might remove these files anyway.
.PP
The
.B \-h
flag will cause expire to ignore the history file if it exists. It will
instead search the entire spool directory, open each file in it and check
the header for expirations. This is much less efficient than using a
history file by a couple of orders of magnitude, but if you have your
history file garbaged or have things drop out of the history file for some
reason this will track them down and remove them.
.PP
The 
.B \-r
flag will cause expire to rebuild the history file. It does this by
searching the entire spool directory and building a new history entry for
each article found.  Rebuilding the history file also rebuilds the
associated
.IR dbm (3X)
files.
.PP
The 
.B \-p
flag causes expire to use the posting date rather than the received date to
expire articles.
.PP
The
.B \-f
flag allows you to define a specific user and expire all messages sent by
that person. The next parameter is used as the name and is in the same
format as the \*(LqFrom:\*(Rq line in the header (e.g.
.IR account@site.UUCP ).
This is 
normally used when a
.IR notes (1)
site resends a batch of old news.
.PP
The
.B \-u
flag causes the minimum article number field in the active file to be
updated. This is normally only used when converting from a 2.10.1 news
system to a 2.10.2 version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
inews(1),
postnews(1),
getdate(3),
news(5),
recnews(8),
sendnews(8),
uurec(8)
