.\" last modified by mab@riacs.arpa (9/23/85)
.if n .ds La '
.if n .ds Ra '
.if t .ds La `
.if t .ds Ra '
.if n .ds Lq "
.if n .ds Rq "
.if t .ds Lq ``
.if t .ds Rq ''
.de Ch
\\$3\\*(Lq\\$1\\*(Rq\\$2
..
.TH INEWS 1 "January 17, 1986"
.ds ]W  Version B 2.10.3
.SH NAME
inews \- submit news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR inews " [ " \-h " ]"
.BI \-t " title " \-n " newsgroups"
[
.BI \-e " expiration date"
] [
.BI \-f " sender name"
] [
.BI \-d " distribution"
] [
.BI \-F " references"
] [
.BI \-o " organization"
] [
.BI \-a " approvedby"
]
.PP
.BI "inews \-p " filename
.PP
.BI "inews \-C " newsgroup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Inews
submits news articles to the USENET news
network.
It is intended as a raw interface, not as a human user interface.
Most people use
.IR postnews (1)
instead.
.PP
The first form is for submitting user articles.
The body will be read from the standard input.  A
.I title
must be specified as there is no default.  Each article
belongs to a list of newsgroups.  If the
.B \-n
flag is omitted, the list
will default to something like 
.BR general .
If you wish to submit an article in multiple newsgroups, the
.I newsgroups
must be separated by commas and/or spaces.
.PP
The 
.B \-e
flag is used to override the default expiration date. This is seldom
used.
.PP
The
.B \-f
flag specifies the article's sender.  Without this flag, the sender
defaults to the user's name.
If
.B \-f
is specified, the real sender's name will be included as a ``Sender:'' line.
.PP
The
.B \-d
flag allows you to specify the maximum distribution of your
article.
.PP
The 
.B \-F
flags is used to attach a list of related articles that this
message references.
.PP
The
.B \-o
is used to override the default organization.
.PP
The
.B \-a
flag is used to add an approved line to the article. This should
only be used by the moderator of a
.BI mod. all
newsgroup.
.PP
The
.B \-h
flag specifies that headers are present at the beginning of the
article, and these headers should be included with the article
header instead of as text.
(This mechanism can be used to edit headers and supply additional
nondefault headers, but not to specify certain information,
such as the sender and article ID, that
.I inews
itself generates.)
.LP
When posting an article, the environment is checked for
information about the sender.
If
.B NAME
is found, its value is used for the full name. If
.B NAME
is not present, the file 
\kx\f2$HOME\fP\h'|\nxu+2u'\f2$HOME/.name\fP
is checked and if it exists, the contents are used as the full name.
Otherwise, the system value (often in
.IR /etc/passwd )
is used.
This is useful if the system value cannot be set, or when
more than one person uses the same login.
If
.B ORGANIZATION
is found, the value overrides the system
default organization. If the value begins with
.Ch / ,
it is assumed to be a file name and the contents of the file are
used.
This is useful when a person uses a guest login and is
not primarily associated with the organization owning the machine.
.LP
The second form is used for receiving articles from other machines.
If
.I filename
is given, the article will be read from the specified file; otherwise
the article will be read from the standard input.  An expiration date
need not be present and a reception date, if present, will be ignored.
.LP
After local installation,
.I inews
will transmit the article to all systems
that subscribe to the newsgroups that the article belongs to.
.LP
The third form is for creating new newsgroups.  On some systems, this may
be limited to specific users such as the super-user or news administrator.
.LP
If the file
.I /usr/lib/news/recording
is present, it is taken as a list of
\&\*(Lqrecordings\*(Rq to be shown to users posting news.
(This is analogous to the recording you hear when you dial information
in some parts of the country, asking you if you really wanted to do this.)
The file contains lines of the form:
.PP
	newsgroups \fB\s-2TAB\s0\fP filename
.PP
for example:
.PP
	net.all	net.recording
.br
.PP
Any user posting an article to a newsgroup matching the pattern on
the left will be shown the contents of the file on the right.
The file is found in the
.B LIB
directory (often
.IR /usr/lib/news ).
The user is then told to hit \s-2DEL\s0 to abort or \s-2RETURN\s0 to proceed.
The intent of this feature is to help companies keep proprietary
information from accidently leaking out.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.sys.nnn
temporary articles
.TP 25
.RI /usr/spool/news/ newsgroups / article_no.
Articles
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/active
List of known newsgroups and highest local article numbers in each.
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/seq
Sequence number of last article
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/history
List of all articles ever seen
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/sys
System subscription list
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Mail(1),
binmail(1),
mailx(1),
checknews(1),
msgs(1),
postnews(1),
readnews(1),
vnews(1),
getdate(3),
news(5),
newsrc(5),
expire(8),
recnews(8),
sendnews(8),
uurec(8)
.SH AUTHORS
Matt Glickman
.br
Mark Horton
.br
Stephen Daniel
.br
Tom R. Truscott
